Introduction to Ruby

### Data Types: Numbers, Strings, Booleans

3 min

In Ruby, your information (or data) can come in different types. There are three **data types** in Ruby that we’re interested in right now: **Numeric** (any number), **Boolean** (which can be true or false), and **String** (words or phrases like `"I'm learning Ruby!"`).

Computer programs exist to quickly analyze and manipulate data. For that reason, it’s important for us to understand the different [data types](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/ruby/data-types)  that we can use in our programs.

Reminder: never use quotation marks (‘ or “) with booleans, or Ruby will think you’re talking about a string (a word or phrase) instead of a value that can be true or false. It’s also important to remember that Ruby is case-sensitive (it cares about capitalization).

- [x] ***Instructions***

- [x] 1. Set the following variables to the corresponding values:

	* my_num to the value 25
	* my_boolean to the value true (note the capitalization!)
	* my_string to the value "Ruby"

## Self Notes

#### Numbers: 
are numeric data which represents any form of a number including *integers*(whole numbers) and *floats*(decimal numbers).

#### Boolean:
these are data types that represent on of two statements, a truth or false. use cases involves conditional programing, (ex. if a condition is truth execute this code or if false execute some other code).

#### Strings:
these are a sequence of characters enclosed withing quotation, wether single or double, additionally strings can also be numbers or boolean statements so it is important not to use quotes when assigning *booloean values* or *number values*.

