Loops & Iterators

### The Loop Method

4 min

So far we’ve learned one way to repeat an action in Ruby: using 

[loops](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/ruby/loops)

Preview: Docs Loops are used to repeat a task a number of times. A loop runs a set of instructions or functions a given amount of times as long as a condition is met. The most common loop in Ruby is the for loop. Other loops are while, until, and do...while. This loop is utilized when you know beforehand how many times you want to repeat the task. ruby for i in 1..5 do puts "Message number #{i}" end

. As is often the case in Ruby, however, there’s more than one way to accomplish a given task. In this case, it’s also possible to repeat an action using an _iterator_.

An iterator is just a Ruby method that repeatedly invokes a block of code. The code block is just the bit that contains the instructions to be repeated, and those instructions can be just about anything you like!

The simplest iterator is the `loop` method. You can create a basic (but infinite!) loop by simply typing

```
loop { print "Hello, world!" }
```

In Ruby, curly braces (`{}`) are generally interchangeable with the keywords `do` (to open the block) and `end` (to close it). Knowing this, we can write a smarter loop than the one above:

```
i = 0
loop do  
	i += 1  print "#{i}"  
	break if i > 5
end
```

The `break` keyword is our Get Out of Jail Free card: it breaks a loop as soon as its condition is met.

Instructions

1. 
    
    1.
    
    - [x] Replace the `___`s in the editor with the appropriate keywords. Check the Hint if you need help!